Hey there,

this is my take on a way to help out complete newbies to ScummVM

All the following will be with the current Enhanced GUI in mind, i have
no idea how

to translate that to the fallback or tiny launcher resolutions

All of the following is not meant to be written in stone, everything is
debateable\...and while Ii'm at it\...i'm not a coder myself so I have
no idea on how much work i'm proposing with this idea\...if you think
this is by far too much, then simply discard the whole idea and I
apologize for the noise

I know that my proposition relies heavily on the GUI (with \*many\*
changes and

additions in there) and on visual help, instead of text based stuff
(except the help windows).

Because i know for myself that i don\'t want to read through numbers of
pages of text

just to get a game going :-)

And to not put long-time users off with a forced \"How-to\" \*i\*
personally think

the following (two parted) solution could work

For the following (advanced users) see Mock-ups \#1 and \#2

I personally love the new enhanced GUI and I think we should make use of
that and the already available information windows, so my whole idea is
based on that.

(There are solutions that could work too, like playing a video that
shows how to do that, but interaction is key, if I may be so bold and
say so) :-)

We should not pamper newbies, while they may a know a great deal about
their beloved adventure games, it's just the UI part of ScummVM hey need
help with, so we give them credit

Adavanced users:

We place a (green?) question-mark in the top left corner (top-right is
reserved for the cloud icon)

1\) Left-clicking on the question mark will make it active (cursor
change and one-time flashing

(yellow?) borders around all the clickable buttons?)

2\) Left-clicking on the question mark will make the cursor change to a
small

version of said question mark to indicate we are in explanation mode,
hot spot could be the

spot underneath the question mark

3\) Once the question mark has been clicked a new clickable button
should appear (on the bottom

right) called "Take the Tour" and only then, to, again, not put off the
long-time users

4\) Once explanation mode is active all clickable GUI buttons should
also indicate their new status

(maybe with a flashing yellow full border?)

5\) The question mark should appear (maybe overlayed?) on \*every\*
single launcher window/tab

and should be clickable on all tabs (but it should \*not\* pulsate, like
the cloud icon, that would

get annoying pretty soon imho).

6\) It should always be aware of where in the GUI (window/tab) it is, to
be able to give the in-

depth description of all the buttons available

7\) Hovering over the buttons should also still work and should give the
known \"short\" description

of what a GUI button does, but with the addition that also the yellow
full border would appear\
to indicate that clicking on it will trigger the more in-depth
explanation

8\) Right-clicking anywhere should return to the normal pointer image
and usage (back out)

As said, the above is aimed at the more advanced users, that already
know about and have used

ScummVM, but don\'t want to read through the whole README to understand
the different settings

![](image1.png){width="6.6930555555555555in"
height="5.174305555555556in"}

The following is aimed at first-time users who want to add their first
game and play it, nothing more, nothing less (except to also show them
how to set some important settings \*if\* they opt-in)

It\'s called \"Take the Tour\" (see above) and consists of guiding a new
user through the steps to get their game

\- found

\- added

\- and run

\- and to show him/her/it how to change a couple of options, if
she/she/it opt to do so

(on three different tabs at max, to not put them off)

Let\'s place a small clickable \"Take the Tour\" logo on the bottom
right (see above, maybe only available once the user clicked on the
question mark?)

1\) Left-clicking on that will start some kind of automated walk-through

![](image1.png){width="6.6930555555555555in"
height="5.174305555555556in"}

2\) A dialog window should appear which will shortly describe what is
going to happen

![](image2.png){width="6.6930555555555555in"
height="5.174305555555556in"}

3\) The aforementioned (see point 3 of the advanced users idea) GUI
button indicator (in this case,

a yellow full border) should appear around \"Add Game\" and a dialog
window should show up

(maybe while all other buttons should get greyed out?)

![](image3.png){width="6.6930555555555555in"
height="5.174305555555556in"}

4\) The user gets control back to be able to click on \"Add Game\"

(If possible there shouldn't be the possibility to click anywhere else?)

On the now open file tab, the next dialog window should appear

![](image4.png){width="6.6930555555555555in"
height="5.174305555555556in"}

5\) When the \"Found game\" dialog comes up, the next dialog window
appears

![](image5.png){width="6.6930555555555555in"
height="5.174305555555556in"}

I know i completely left out the \"Game Options\", but i believe this
would be just too much for

the quick tour and distracts from getting the game to add and play

I also know that the ScummVM dialog for browsing through a HDD is not
the default, but since

there are so many different platforms with so many different UI's it
would be hard to cover them

all and maybe it would be better to switch back to using the default
ScummVM UI?

6\) Now we are back at the main launcher window with the added game

Bring up another window

![](image6.png){width="6.6930555555555555in"
height="5.174305555555556in"}

7\) If the user chooses to go on with the tour, change to the \"Global
Options\" tab

![](image7.png){width="6.6930555555555555in"
height="5.174305555555556in"}

8\) The first tab in \"Global Options\" is already the \"Graphics\" tab,
so we show the next dialog

window

![](image8.png){width="5.947916666666667in"
height="4.598611111111111in"}

9\) Switch tabs to the \"Volume\" tab and show the next dialog window

![](image10.png){width="6.6930555555555555in"
height="5.174305555555556in"}

10\) Once \"Apply\" was clicked, we switch to the \"Paths\" tab and show
the next dialog window

![](image11.png){width="6.6930555555555555in"
height="5.174305555555556in"}

11\) This finishes our tour, tell the user

![](image12.png){width="6.6930555555555555in"
height="5.174305555555556in"}
